bake(1) -- make for bash
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bake` command [<options>...]<br>

## DESCRIPTION

**bake** is `make` for bash programs. It provides an extensible system for managing project tasks using modular code.
	
# BUILTIN TASKS

All bake(1) projects have the following tasks built in task-test(7), task-clean(7), task-list(7), task-doc(7) and task-semver(7).

# REQUIRE TASKS

The convention is that task methods are not declared in tasks(7) but are placed in modules and then included using require(3). So to include the task-todo(7) functionality into your project all you need to do is require(3) it:

	require 'tasks/todo';

## FILES

The bake(1) program looks for a tasks(7) file in the current working directory. If no tasks(7) file is found in the current working directory then bake(1) will walk all parent directories looking for a tasks(7) file.

It maps commands (the first option passed to bake(1)) to task method(s) declared by the tasks file. A command is considered to be the first option passed to the `bake` executable, any other options specified on the command line are passed to the corresponding task method.

## ENVIRONMENT

The following variables are available to each command method:

* `root`:
	The directory where the `tasks` file is located.

* `target`:
	A temporary `target` directory corresponding to `${root}/target`.
	
* `tasks`:
	The file system path to the tasks file, eg: `${root}/tasks`.
	
## EXIT CODES

A >0 exit code is used when no task(7) file could be located or no command is available, otherwise the exit code is deferred to the task being executed.

* `1`:
	No task(7) file available in the current working directory (or any parent directories).
* `2`:
	No task command available.
* `>0`:
	The task command invocation returned a non-zero exit code but did not explicitly call `exit`.
	
It is recommended that task command implementations explicitly exit the program using the `quit` and `success` commands declared by console(3).

## BUGS

**bake** is written in bash and depends upon `bash` >= 4.

## COPYRIGHT

**bake** is copyright (c) 2012 muji <http://xpm.io>

## SEE ALSO

task-test(7), task-doc(7), task-clean(7), task-list(7)
