sprintf(3) -- tty printf
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

	sprintf [options...] message [parameters...]

## DESCRIPTION

Print ANSI formatted output to a terminal.

If either stdout or stderr is not a *tty* then formatting of the output message is not performed which means that when redirecting to a file the ANSI sequence is omitted and the string is passed with parameter replacement performed but no formatting.

## OPTIONS

* `-1`:

Print to *stdout*.

* `-2`:

Print to *stderr*.

* `--color=[color]`:

Set *color* as the foreground color. See `COLOR NAMES`.

* `--background=[color]`:

Set *color* as the background color. See `COLOR NAMES`.

* `--attribute=[name]`:

Set *name* as the message attribute. See `ATTRIBUTE NAMES`.

* `--prefix=[prefix]`:

Prepend *prefix* to the message.

* `--suffix=[suffix]`:

Append *suffix* to the message.

* `--prefix-command=[command]`:

Execute *command* to generate the message prefix. The *command* has access to the `prefix` variable containing any current prefix and should set this variable to modify the message prefix.

* `--program`:

Prepend the program name to a message.

* `--date`:

Append a date to the message prefix.

* `--timestamp`:

Append a timestamp to the message prefix.

* `--export=[name]`:

Do not print the message export to the environment variable identified by *name*.

* `--no-prefix`:

Do not print the prefix.

* `--no-bright-prefix`:

Do not apply bright styling to the message prefix.

* `--readline`:

Use escape sequences compatible with passing to `read -ep`. This allows formatting to be applied to interactive prompts using `read`. When this option is used nothing is printed, you should use this option in conjunction with `--export` and pass the resulting variable as the prompt to `read -ep`.

* `--debug`:

Do not interpret ANSI sequences, print them.

## HYPHENS

Use the `--` option to signal that option processing should stop so that message and replacement values that begin with a hyphen may be processed.

## COLOR NAMES

The available color names are:

* normal
* black
* red
* green
* brown
* blue
* magenta
* cyan
* gray

Each color is also available using a *bright* prefix:

* bright-black
* bright-red
* bright-green
* bright-brown
* bright-blue
* bright-magenta
* bright-cyan
* bright-gray

## ATTRIBUTE NAMES

The available attribute names are:

* normal
* bright
* faint (not widely supported)
* italic (not widely supported)
* underline
* blink
* negative
* positive

## TERMINAL EMULATORS

The `$TERM` variable must report one of the following values for ANSI replacement to be performed:

* xterm
* xterm-color
* vt100
* ansi
	
## ITERM2

It is recommended that users of iTerm2 uncheck the `Draw bold text in bright colors` option in `Profiles > Text` for highlighted replacement values to appear consistently with the main message colour.
	
## VARIABLES

The read only `ansi` associative array stores color names and ANSI escape sequence information.

## BUGS

**sprintf** is written in bash and depends upon `bash` >= 4.2.

## COPYRIGHT

**sprintf** is copyright (c) 2012 muji <http://xpm.io>

## SEE ALSO

console(3)