strike-tree(7) -- filesystem structure for strike(7)
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

Although it is *not mandatory* it is recommended (for maximum portability and consistency) that you follow a convention for the filesystem structure which is shown below.

	|-- bin
	|-- doc
	|-- lib
	|	|-- modules
	|		|-- doc
	|		|-- tasks
	|-- man
	|-- target
	|-- test
	
## BIN

Executable files should be placed in the `bin` directory.

## DOC

Auxiliary files for man page documentation (index.html, index.txt etc) should be placed in the `doc` directory.

## LIB

Library functions can be placed in the `lib` directory. Note that files in this directory are not included when generating documentation using task-doc(7), for inline documentation use a module. 

## MODULES

Modules for the program **must** be in the `lib/modules` directory in order for require(3) to find your modules correctly when no relative or absolute path to the module has been specified.

## MODULES/DOC

If you use `.ronn` files in addition to the inline documentation functionality it is recommended that they are placed in `lib/modules/doc`.

## TASKS

Any program-specific tasks for bake(1) should be placed in `lib/modules/tasks`.

## MAN

The `man` directory is where task-doc(7) will place generated man pages.

## TARGET

The `target` directory is used by bake(1) for staging, logging and any other temporary files, this directory should be ignored by any source code management tool such as git(1).

## TEST

Unit test files are searched for in the `test` directory when task-test(7) runs.

## SEE ALSO

strike(7)