manual(1) -- interactive man page browser
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

  manual [command] [options...]

## DESCRIPTION

An interactive program for viewing the strike(7) manual pages. Tab completion
is performed on the available man pages and interactive commands (with the
exception of the *help* command).

You may use the following sequences to exit the program:

* q
* quit
* exit

## COMMANDS

* `help`:

  Show the manual(1) man page.

## OPTIONS

* `--version`:

  Print the program version and exit.

* `--color=auto|never|always`:

  Change the configuration for printing ANSI color escape sequences.
  The default value is *auto*. See sprintf(3).

## INTERACTIVE COMMANDS

The following commands are available from the interactive prompt.


* `name.[1-8]`:

  Open *name* manual page using man(1).


* `ls`:

  List available manual pages.

* `?`:

  Print command usage.

* `help`:

  Display this manual page.

## DEVELOPER COMMANDS

These commands are designed to be used by developers.

* `build`:

  Command to build the man pages from the markdown source, 
  requires ronn(1). This is an alias for the task-doc(7) command that
  corresponds to `bake doc man build`.

* `generate`:

  Command to build the ronn documents from inline heredoc comments.
  This is an alias for the task-doc(7) command that
  corresponds to `bake doc man generate`.

* `compile`:

  Command to compile all ronn documents to manual pages, 
  requires ronn(1). This is an alias for the task-doc(7) command that
  corresponds to `bake doc man compile`.

* `import`:

  Import compiled manual pages into the man directory.
  This is an alias for the task-doc(7) command that
  corresponds to `bake doc man import`.

* `clean`:

  Remove compiled manual pages from the man directory.
  This is an alias for the task-doc(7) command that
  corresponds to `bake doc man clean`.

## EXAMPLES

Launch the interactive browser:

  manual

Display this manual page:

  manual help

Switch off the color capability:

  manual --color=never

Print program version and exit:

  manual --version

## BUGS

**manual** is written in bash and depends upon `bash` >= 4.2.

## COPYRIGHT

**manual** is copyright (c) 2012 muji <http://xpm.io>

## SEE ALSO

man(1), sprintf(3), task-doc(7), ronn(1)
