task-archive(7) -- archive task(s) for bake(1)
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

Archive task(s) for bake(1).

## DESCRIPTION

Creates and extracts archives using tar(1) for *tar* and *bz2* files and zip(1) and unzip(1) for *zip* files.

## REQUIRE

In your tasks(7) file `require` the `archive` task(s) using:

	require 'tasks/archive';

## USAGE

	bake archive -c [options...] [archive] [files...]
	bake archive -x [options...] [archive]
	bake archive -l [options...] [archive]
	bake archive -t [options...] [archive]
	
## COMMANDS

* `-c | create`:

	Creates an archive.
	
* `-x | extract`:

	Extracts an archive.
	
* `-l | ls`:

	List files in an archive. This command is *not* verbose, it only prints the files in the archive, no other information is included in the output.
	
* `-t | test`:

	Tests a specified task-archive(7) command to determine the archive type and resulting archive file name. The output of this command is the type followed by a space and the archive file name that will be used, a newline and then the working directory on the next line.
	
## OPTIONS

* `-a | --archive [tar|bz2|zip]`:

	The type of archive to operate on, if none is specified then task-archive(7) attempts to infer the type from the file extension. If the specified type is unknown the program will exit with a code >0.

* `-d | --dir [directory]`:

	A working directory to resolve paths from, if none is specified then the current working directory is used.
	
* `-o | --output [directory]`:

	When creating archives this is a directory to place the created archives in, when extracting archives this option determines where extracted archive contents will be placed. Must be a valid directory.
	
## FLAG OPTIONS	
	
* `--debug`:

	Print the commands being executed.

## BUGS

**task-archive** is written in bash and depends upon `bash` >= 4.2.

## COPYRIGHT

**task-archive** is copyright (c) 2012 muji <http://xpm.io>

## SEE ALSO

bake(1)
